README.md, before:

# gds-accessible-search
An intelligent search bar to improve accessibility on GOV.UK/NHS.UK pages using OpenAI. 

Kainos OpenAI submission for SHWAST (Beenita Shah, Oliver Stanley, Andrew Wang).

### Motivation

> The future of accessibility for government messaging

People for whom English is a foreign language (EFL) often need to read and understand important information and advice from GOV.UK and NHS websites, for example travel advice or public health advice. This includes those who may not even speak English at all.

These users need a quick and trustworthy way of naturally asking questions to a GOV.UK website in their own language.

These questions could be for example:
- _这个网站是关于什么的？_(What is this website about?)
- _Quel est le séjour maximum dans ce pays sans visa?_ (What is the maximum stay in this country without a visa?)

### Solution

We have built a tool that can answer natural-language questions on any government webpage. Our solution consists of 3 parts:

1. [Frontend component contained in one file](https://andrewwango.github.io/gds-accessible-search/component/dist/index.html) which performs all the logic client-side.
2. We use a micro-backend to route API calls to an OpenAI API securely, without exposing our OpenAI API key to the frontend. This is deployed serverlessly.
3. Demo of a government website with the component inserted using Nunjucks, deployed statically to Github Pages

Our solution will provide the following functionality:

- Drop-in: insert the component into any webpage with only one HTML tag; the component is one file to be saved on server
- Lightweight: all processing is done client-side and the backend contains no program logic
- Multilingual: ask a question and receive an answer in any language, using ChatGPT's multilingual capabilities

## Usage

To use our component on your government webpage, simply copy the component HTML file from `component/dist/index.html` and insert the component using a Nunjucks `include`:

```html
{% include "component/index.html" %}
```

at the desired location. Then build your website how you normally would. This embeds the component HTML along with all javascripts. CSS is not needed as the GOV.UK website will already have the necessary CSS.

## Live demo

A demo of the component in action on a sample GOV.UK website can be viewed [live here](https://andrewwango.github.io/gds-accessible-search/demo/dist/www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice/france/entry-requirements.html).

## Developer guide

### Add component to demo

1. Download a GOV.UK website. Here's an example using the website describing [France foreign travel advice](https://www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice/france/entry-requirements):

```bash
cd demo && wget --mirror --convert-links --adjust-extension --page-requisites --no-parent --no-check-certificate https://www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice/france
```

2. Add component anywhere in the website HTML using a Nunjucks include: 

```html
{% include "component/index.html" %}
```

3. Build the site using `yarn install && yarn build` and optionally run locally using `yarn test`.

### Build component

Note that the CSS file is only needed to import styles for the Government Design System components, and the assets (images and fonts) are those included with GDS following this [tutorial](https://frontend.design-system.service.gov.uk/get-started/#4-get-the-font-and-images-working).

- Get started locally: `npm i yarn`, `yarn install`, `pip install beautifulsoup4` (for build process only)
- Build: `yarn build` (see below)
- Run site locally: `yarn test` (using `live-server`)
- Recompile SASS (only if needed): `yarn sass style.scss src/index.css`

#### Build
This uses a custom build process in `component/build.sh`. First the Javascript, along with its dependencies, is bundled into a single script using `webpack`. Then HTML (and CSS) are copied across. Finally, all Javascripts are copied into the HTML as inline scripts (very hacky), allowing the component to be embedded in one line.

### Deploy backend

**To Deploy Locally**

Create `local.settings.json` based on the provided `local.settings.json.example` in `backend/`. Probably also create a virtual environment.

```
cd backend
pip install -r requirements.txt
func start
```

**To Deploy to Azure**

```
cd backend
func azure functionapp publish shwast-fun-app
```

(if using a different function app, replace `shwast-fun-app` with the new name)

### Test backend

Use the text client.

```
cd text-client
pip install -r requirements.txt
python main.py
```

Commit message:

support nhs tags and selectors

README.md, after:

# gds-accessible-search
An intelligent search bar to improve accessibility on GOV.UK/NHS.UK pages using OpenAI. 

Kainos OpenAI submission for SHWAST (Beenita Shah, Oliver Stanley, Andrew Wang).

### Motivation

> The future of accessibility for government messaging

People for whom English is a foreign language (EFL) often need to read and understand important information and advice from GOV.UK and NHS websites, for example travel advice or public health advice. This includes those who may not even speak English at all.

These users need a quick and trustworthy way of naturally asking questions to a GOV.UK website in their own language.

These questions could be for example:
- _这个网站是关于什么的？_(What is this website about?)
- _Quel est le séjour maximum dans ce pays sans visa?_ (What is the maximum stay in this country without a visa?)

### Solution

We have built a tool that can answer natural-language questions on any government webpage. Our solution consists of 3 parts:

1. [Frontend component contained in one file](https://andrewwango.github.io/gds-accessible-search/component/dist/index.html) which performs all the logic client-side.
2. We use a micro-backend to route API calls to an OpenAI API securely, without exposing our OpenAI API key to the frontend. This is deployed serverlessly.
3. Demo of a government website with the component inserted using Nunjucks, deployed statically to Github Pages

Our solution will provide the following functionality:

- Drop-in: insert the component into any webpage with only one HTML tag; the component is one file to be saved on server
- Lightweight: all processing is done client-side and the backend contains no program logic
- Multilingual: ask a question and receive an answer in any language, using ChatGPT's multilingual capabilities

## Usage

To use our component on your government webpage, simply copy the component HTML file from `component/dist/index.html` and insert the component using a Nunjucks `include`:

```html
{% include "component/index.html" %}
```

at the desired location. Then build your website how you normally would. This embeds the component HTML along with all javascripts. CSS is not needed as the GOV.UK website will already have the necessary CSS.

## Live demo

A demo of the component in action on a sample GOV.UK website can be viewed [live here](https://andrewwango.github.io/gds-accessible-search/demo/dist/www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice/france/entry-requirements.html).

## Developer guide

### Add component to demo

1. Download a GOV.UK website. Here's an example using the website describing [France foreign travel advice](https://www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice/france/entry-requirements):

```bash
cd demo && wget --mirror --convert-links --adjust-extension --page-requisites --no-parent --no-check-certificate https://www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice/france
```

2. Add component anywhere in the website HTML using a Nunjucks include: 

```html
{% include "component/index.html" %}
```

3. Build the site using `yarn install && yarn build` and optionally run locally using `yarn test`.

Note: to use on a NHS webpage, instead include `component/index_nhs.html` which has all GOV.UK tags replaced with their NHS.UK counterparts.

### Build component

Note that the CSS file is only needed to import styles for the Government Design System components, and the assets (images and fonts) are those included with GDS following this [tutorial](https://frontend.design-system.service.gov.uk/get-started/#4-get-the-font-and-images-working).

- Get started locally: `npm i yarn`, `yarn install`, `pip install beautifulsoup4` (for build process only)
- Build: `yarn build` (see below)
- Run site locally: `yarn test` (using `live-server`)
- Recompile SASS (only if needed): `yarn sass style.scss src/index.css`

#### Build
This uses a custom build process in `component/build.sh`. First the Javascript, along with its dependencies, is bundled into a single script using `webpack`. Then HTML (and CSS) are copied across. Finally, all Javascripts are copied into the HTML as inline scripts (very hacky), allowing the component to be embedded in one line.

### Deploy backend

**To Deploy Locally**

Create `local.settings.json` based on the provided `local.settings.json.example` in `backend/`. Probably also create a virtual environment.

```
cd backend
pip install -r requirements.txt
func start
```

**To Deploy to Azure**

```
cd backend
func azure functionapp publish shwast-fun-app
```

(if using a different function app, replace `shwast-fun-app` with the new name)

### Test backend

Use the text client.

```
cd text-client
pip install -r requirements.txt
python main.py
```
